.Dd December 5, 2022
.Dt hp_readymsg 1
.Os 
.Sh NAME
.Nm hp_readymsg
.Nd change the ready message on most HP printers.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar address
.Ar "message"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This program is designed to exploit a buffer overflow in most HP printers that allows the "READY" message to be customized.
Uses of this program include self-promotion ("SOMEONE IS 1337"), humor ("Ready for action" or "Ready, Batman!"), finding a missing printer ("Call IT if found"), or messing with users' minds ("ERROR -37");  the uses for this program are endless.
.Pp
A list of items with descriptions:
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Ar address
A printer can be specified by any method that the operating system supports, such as a hostname (printer2), fully-qualified domain name such as (printer2.domain.example.com), or an IP address (192.168.0.1, fec0::1).
As with any lookup, translating a name or FQDN to an IP address takes time, so if execution time matters (such as when acting on a list of printers) you may want to use a list of IP addresses.
.It Ar "message"
The message can be any string of up to sixteen characters, put in quotes.
Some printers may support Unicode, but some do not;  therefore, it is best to use 7-bit ASCII characters.
N.B., On the HP LaserJet 5si, you are allowed up to 44 characters.
.El
.Pp
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Ex -std hp_readymsg
This can be useful if you're writing a script;  i.e., normal people won't have to deal with this, much less care about it.
.Pp
Anyway, for those of you who need to know, the number can be one of the ones below;  any other number (or 1) indicates that something is seriously awry.
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It 0
The command completed successfully;  the printer's READY message was changed.
All is well.
Go take a look at the printer and laugh manically at your leetness.
.It 2
Syntax error;  make sure you're giving the program the correct arguments.
.It 3
Host not found.
If you gave a hostname, is it correct?
If so, try the IP address.
If that still fails, the printer may be off or otherwise unreachable (e.g., due to VLAN's or a firewall).
.It 4
Could not create socket.
In technical terms, this means that the program could not allocate a file descriptor for your socket.
This one's a toughie;  let's hope it doesn't happen.
.It 5
The socket could not be created.
Again, check your hostname or IP address.
This commonly happens when you reach something that's not a JetDirect card, such as a computer.
.El
.Pp
.Sh STANDARDS
.St -std=gnu89
.Pp
.Sh AUTHOR (MAC OS X PORT)
.An Colin Cogle .Aq <colin@colincogle.name>
.Pp